# Collabow - Brainstorm real-time with anyone anywhere.

I came up with the idea for collabow while trying to work on a pset (MIT speak
for homework) with a friend who was on the other side of the Charles river. We
were videochatting, and I was trying to show my friend how I was approaching the
problem. I had drawn a diagram on paper, and was struggling to hold it so that
the webcam could properly view it, when I realized that what I was doing was
ridiculous. I owned an iPad, which could work very effectively as a digital
sketchpad, but I drawing my ideas with a pencil and then trying to take
pictures. Google Docs was great for working remotely and typing, but sketches
are the natural language of brainstorming. I couldn't find a product that did
what I wanted, so I decided I wanted to build it.

Andrew Dorne and I applied to the [StartLabs](www.startlabs.org) C2C program.
Along with [Paulina Mustafa](http://paulinated.me), we worked to turn Collabow
into product.

With the help of our awesome advisors, we eventually decided the best initial
target market would be companies with telecommuters, and our product would be
optimized to enable effective remote brainstorming. Although there are many
great products in that space, none focused on the brainstorming process. We felt
that sketching was the natural language of brainstorming, and no products really
allowed people to do that in a collaborative, real-time fashion. We wanted to
help avoid problems like this:

![Cluttered screen with videochat, Google doc, and IRC](/img/cluttered-screen.png)

We built Collabow. Multiple people could sketch on the canvas at the same time,
each using their tablet, phone, or computer. A screenshot of a demo Andrew and I
ran for the C2C final presentation is below. We were showing how we could both
remotely brainstorm to improve the StartLabs logo.

![Collabowrating on how to improve the StartLabs logo](/img/collabowrating.png)

We thought that our ideas would have significantly improved the StartLabs logo,
but some people argued that it looked suspiciously similar to another logo. They
may have had a point...

![The Collabow logo. It looks eerily similar to our suggestions for the StartLabs logo...](/img/collabow.png)

Even though each person on the team was individually awesome, our team dynamics
were not great and we stopped working on Collabow after C2C. Working on Collabow
was a ton of fun, and I learned a lot about customer interaction, development,
team management, and the startup world in general. The code for site is
[up on GitHub](http://www.github.com/troyastorino/collabow).  As far as I am
aware there is still space in this niche for a product, so if you are thinking
of building something there feel free to shoot me an email.

## Lessons learned

Although going into this I knew that the team was paramount, after going through
the program I learned about many ways team interactions can change the overall
outcome. Team members need to have goals and expectations that are compatible.
Everyone needs to have understanding of each others' relative abilities and
experiences. These sort of things sound obvious, and to a certain extent they
are, but experiencing how those sort of issues play out really makes you
appreciate much more strongly how important is to make as much clear as possible
from the start.

I also learned how minimum a MVP should be. We started having dreams of building
the great real-time programming platform, when really at the time none of the
team members had anywhere near the necessary programming chops and experience to
attack that.  If I were starting this project again, I would work on building a
really great brainstorming app extension to Google Hangouts, one that would
allow you to sketch with tablets and phones.  One of our VC advisors suggested
that route to us at some point, but we really wanted to eventually turn this
application platform, and we with sagely wisdom though that we wouldn't be able
to do this if we started within one ecosystem. But, if we focused on solving the
pain point customers were facing, it would have been better to build on top of
great tools that people use, and build away from them only as we found the
limitations of those tools.

This brings me to the greatest lesson of the experience, and that is to get
customers in the loop earlier than early. It's important to be talking to
customers before anything at all is build. To some extent, we were our own
customers, and so we had a good amount of customer feedback by just trying to
make something that we wanted to use.  But, as we were building the product, it
was easy to lose sight of the exact problem we were trying to solve.  Bringing
the customer perspective in more often would have helped with that, whether that
involved talking to actual potential customers or even taking more time to step
outside the developer's shoes.
