Computers have revolutionized the world. We've been able to eliminate repetitive
and mundane information processing task by writing programs to do them for us. 
At first the tools necessary to automate these tasks were very expensive, and 
only available to very few. The PC revolution, of course, drove down costs and 
made this automating power available to everyone. The internet provided the 
greatest distribution channel of task automization, and has prompted the 
creation of tooling that enables millions of people to write programs to improve 
their, and other people's, lives. 

Automating physical tasks does not have that same accessibility. Robotics is 
sill a domain that requires low level expert knowledge, and so has a very high 
barrier to entry. Because of this, we still don't see the massive proliferation 
of robots that science fiction has predicted time and time again. I want to make 
robotic application development as easy as internet application development. 

Additionally, there are still many critical services in which information
processing is a primary function that have not yet been transformed by
computing. Formal education is one field where this is true. The proliferation
of informal learning opportunities over the internet, however, has conclusively
demonstrated the power of technology to improve education. Many people have been
pursuing innovative and promising approaches to bring technology-enabled
techniques to formal education, and I'm confident that some of these approaches
with take root. Healthcare is another one of these types of industries that has
not yet been improved by technology as much as had been hoped. This is not for
lack of money and effort: many brilliant people have poured their hearts and
souls into improving healthcare, and many programs have tried throwing oodles of
money at problems. The massive complexity and inertia in the system has helped
to make it a problem that hasn't been cracked yet. It's an industry I hope to be
able to make a different in.
